# API_Testing_Lab

This was a testing framework that tested randomly selected postcodes singularly and multiply. It tested the postcode API (http://postcodes.io/), an API is a set of features and functions with access to data. When testing an API it is crucial to ensure that the data generated has been validated with the API, to ensure that all the data is valid and tests will pass. For example with this lab I had to ensure that the postcodes were valid when tested, with any invalid postcode that was not recognised in the API would result in failures of all the tests.

To generate the postcodes so it was more dynamic, there was a feature available in the API to get a random postcode and this was added in to generate a random postcode from the API. However this was just a get request for randomly generating a single postcode and not multiple which is what was needed as well to test multiple postcodes. In order to test multiple postcodes an array was entered with valid postcodes and then a request would be posted to generate 3 random postcodes from the array using the array.sample(3) function.

Tests included ensuring all hash key values had the right type format such as a string, integer or array. Tests to ensure some key values were specific for example a status message of 200 had to always be printed to ensure that the postcode is valid any other number would mean an invalid postcode (401). Also the length of the postcodes were tested to ensure that postcodes were of valid length. When using the postcode API, the space in the middle of a 7 length long postcode was included in the length, so the method to get the length of the postcode used a gsub feature. I used gsub!(/\s/,'') to ensure that the space was not replaced with an empty space so they would not be included in the length and the test for a postocde to be between 5 and 7 inclusive would pass.
